# [Writing code is cheap now](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47125374)
* "Typing out a few hundred lines of code was never the real bottleneck. What was expensive was everything around it: making it correct, making it maintainable (often underestimated), coordinating across teams and supporting it long term."
  * "Testing every possible path, validating across every platform, or routing every change through layers of organizational approval can multiply costs quickly. At some point, process (not code) becomes the dominant expense."
  * "What LLMs clearly reduce is the short-term cost of producing working code. That part is dramatically cheaper."
  * "If we generate more code, faster, does that reduce cost or just increase the surface area we need to maintain, test, secure, and reason about later?"
* "I think this is a bad argument. Code was expensive because you were trying to write the expensive good code in the first place."
  * "When you drop your standards, then writing generated code is quick, easy and cheap. Unless you're willing to change your standard, getting it back to "good code" is still an equivalent effort."
* "In my experience, it’s even *more* effort to get good code with an agent-when writing by hand, I fully understand the rationale for each line I write. With ai, I have to assess every clause and think about why it’s there. Even when code reviewing juniors, there’s a level of trust that they had a reason for including each line (assuming they’re not using ai too for a moment); that’s not at all my experience with Codex."
  * "Last month I did the majority of my work through an agent, and while I did review its work, I’m now finding edge cases and bugs of the kind that I’d never have expected a human to introduce. Obviously it’s on me to better review its output, but the perceived gains of just throwing a quick bug ticket at the ai quickly disappear when you want to have a scalable project."
* "In software, all the economic value is in the information *encoded in* the code. The instructions on precisely what to do to deliver said value. Typically, painstakingly discovered over months or years of iteration. Which is exactly why people pay for it when you've done it well, because they cannot and will not rediscover all that for themselves."
  * "Writing code, per se, is ultimately nothing more than mapping that information. How well that's done is a separate question from whether the information is good in the first place, but the information being good is always the dominant and deciding factor in whether the software has value."
  * "So obviously there is a lot of value in the mapping - that is writing the code - being done well and, all else being equal, faster. But putting that cart before the horse and saying that speeding this up (to the extent this is even true - a very deep and separate question) has some driving impact on the economics of software I think is really not the right way to look at it."
  * "You don't get better information by being able to map the information more quickly. The quality of the information is entirely independent of the mapping, and if the information is the thing with the economic value, you see that the mapping being faster does not really change the equation much."
  * "A clarifying example from a parallel universe might be the kind of amusing take about consultancy that's been seen a lot - that because generative AI can produce things like slides, consultancies will be disrupted. This is an amusingly naive take precisely because it's so clear that the slides in and of themselves have no value separate from the thing clients are actually paying for: the thinking behind the content in the slides. Having the ability to produce slides faster gets you nothing without the thinking. So it is in software too."
* "Every modern (and not so modern) software development method hinge on one thing: requirements are not known and even if known they'll change over time. From this you get the goal of "good" code which is "easy to change code"."
